docs(gpu-instances): add troubleshoot section - MTA-2228 (#862)
scaleway/docs-content: compute/gpu/troubleshooting/updating-gpu-instance-with-cloud-init.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Fixing GPU issues after upgrading GPU Instances with cloud-init
  description: This section provides information how to fix GPU issues after upgrading GPU Instances with cloud-init
content:
  h1: Fixing GPU issues after upgrading GPU Instances with cloud-init
  paragraph:  This section provides information how to fix GPU issues after upgrading GPU Instances with cloud-init
dates:
  validation: 2022-09-19
  posted: 2022-09-19
---

> When running the `upgrade_package` command with `cloud-init` the nivida drivers may break and the GPU can become unavailable. This problem presists even after a manual reboot of the Instance and the following error displays: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running the `upgrade_package` command with `cloud-init` the Nvidia drivers may break causing the GPU to become unavailable. This problem persists even after a manual reboot of the Instance and the following error displays: 
```

```

> The GPU is not usable. The driver not loaded, with the following errors in the system journal

Reviewer: The error message contains a grammar issue ("The driver not loaded") but if this is the actual error message as it currently displays I guess we have to leave it like this

Author: I don't think I can change this error message - it is coming from the Nvida drivers

[FAILED] Failed to start NVIDIA Persistence Daemon.
```

> This error is caused by the way the `upgrade_package ` command is [handling the upgrade](https://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/topics/examples.html#additional-apt-configuration-and-repositories) of the packages installed on the system. It runs `apt-get dist-upgrade` instead of `apt upgrade`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This error is caused by the way the `upgrade_package ` command [handles the upgrade](https://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/topics/examples.html#additional-apt-configuration-and-repositories) of the packages installed on the system. It runs `apt-get dist-upgrade` instead of `apt upgrade`.
```
